Finish up we'll do a couple of examples.
And here we're going to include functions that are both adding and subtracting.
So for example if we have X and we want to find the derivative of X right.
So let's say that X equals 3 x 2 the fourth minus 2 x to the eighth plus 5 x minus 3.
OK.
So here we have a group of functions right.
Some of them are subtracting like these two and these two and some of them are adding like these two.
So we basically are going to use a combination of the sum rule and the differential.
And remember our mnemonic says add because we're adding.
But again it also works for us.
It also works for the differential.
And it says to add the different derivatives.
Yes I know Majdi looks like a p.
Thank you very much.
OK.
So what we do here is we basically get the derivative of each function normally as we would.
And we just keep the signs between them.
So whenever you have a minors you're going to keep a minus.
And wherever you have a plus you're going to keep a plus.
So right let's start getting the derivatives.
So first one is constant multiple.
We keep the three we bring down a dictator that's for X substituted by a less powerful leader.
Gives us a three on top minus constant multiple rule.
So we keep the two we bring down our dictator eights X and we substitute a less powerful leader.
That gives us a 7 and my 7 sucks.
So let's try that again.
It cuts a little bit better I guess.
All right.
Moving on plus so constant multiple we keep the five times again remember that if it doesn't have anything
this X it just means it's a 1.
So we bring down the one we keep the X and we substitute by a new leader.
But if we have one and we substitute by any leader that gives us the one minus one.
So that's X to the 0 minus.
Again 3 is a constant constant rule constant temperature means that it's not changing so its derivative
is zero.
There we go.
All right and now let's simplify.
Three times four is 12 x cubed times 8 is 16 x 7.
If I can write seven.
All right.
That's a lot better.
OK.
Plus five times one is five x to zero.
Remember that anything to the zero is one.
OK.
In case you still do not remember this.
I'll put it over here.
X 2 0 is always one that never changes.
OK so it's five times one is five times x to the zero.
So times 1 again is still 5 ok and minus zero there's nothing to do there.
So we have our answer.
This is it
OK.
So again whenever you have a combination of functions some of them subtracting some of them adding what
you do is you get the derivative of each.
Remember your rule.
Add the different derivatives but also subtract the different derivatives that means that basically
you're going to get the derivative of each term right.
Each of these and you're just going to keep the sign that was there.
So for example for these two we find the derivative of the first function.
We put the minus.
We find the derivative of the second function.
We put a plus.
We find the derivative of the third function.
We put a minus and we find the derivative of the third right there.
OK.
We'll have a couple of more examples in the examples section.
So for now just know that you can combine the sum rule and the differential.
OK guys so now to go over a quick summary of what we just did.
First of all functions can be composed of other functions that are adding or subtracting.
So you could have a x equals to the sum of different functions subtraction of different functions or
both the sum and subtraction of different functions for functions that are adding.
We apply some rule which says the derivative of a sum is the sum of the derivatives.
Right.
And here we have our mnemonic which is at.
And you remember this because to some something means to add something and he means add different derivatives.
So you're going to take each individual derivative of the function and then you're going to add them
together.
On the other hand for functions that are subtracting the difference rule is what we use the derivative
of a difference is the difference of the derivatives.
And again we also use the same the same mnemonic
AD.
However instead of adding we're going to be subtracting and again we use the same mnemonic for both
the sum and different SRL because they're very similar.
However instead of adding we'll be subtracting here.
So if you have a function that equals the subtraction of other functions you're going to do is you're
going to take each individual derivative and you're going to subtract them.
OK.
Sometimes you will need to use both the sum rule and the differential for a function.
Again we did a couple of examples.
You could have f of x equals G of X minus H of X plus I have X etc. etc..
So sometimes you'll have functions that are a combination of both adding and subtracting.
And here you're just going to take.
Again we're going to use our mnemonic and we're just going to take each individual derivative and keep
the sign in the middle.
OK.
So if you think about it it's the same thing we do with the ADD rule right.
We use the mnemonic we take each individual derivative and we take the plus sign.
Same for subtraction.
We take each individual derivative and we keep the negative sign.
Well again when you have both adding and subtracting functions you take each individual derivative and
you just keep the sign.
If it's a plus staes a plus if it's negative it stays negative.
OK.
Finally we have our mnemonic which is add we know how to use it because when you're adding something
is when you use the same rule.
Remember when you sum something.
Adding it to same thing and the mnemonic stands for add different derivatives.
It is used to remember both the sum rule and the differential.
The only difference.
No pun intended is that in the differential instead of adding We are subtracting.
And finally just remember addition equals a sum and a difference equals subtraction.
So this stuff over here is Plus and this stuff over here is minus.
OK.
Again hopefully that wasn't too bad.
It's a very easy rule.
Once you learn to apply it I know I say that about every single rule but it is true.
Once you do it in a couple of problems you're going to think to yourself wow it's actually pretty easy.
So we have a couple of problems for you to explore in the problem section.
That is it for now and I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.